# Leaving Google

This project documents my attempts to extract myself from the Google ecosystem. 

## Motivation

It was always understood that by using Google products you grant them control
of your data for the purposes of advertising and providing better, more
intelligent services.

In the past Google had your data siloed by product (GMail data was not shared
with Picasa, no YouTube integration, etc). With the introduction of Google Plus
they began integrating all of their product data. This alone was not enough to
push me away from their services, as many of them are quite useful and had no
mature and trustworthy alternatives (product offerings from Microsoft, Apple,
etc. I trust even less than Google). More recently they have become extremely
pushy about funneling all of my activities through their central account for
me. Examples:

* When using Chrome I am regularly prompted to sign into Chrome using my Google
  account. I do not want my locally-installed browser tied to my account with
  Google. I have no way to permanently dismiss this prompt.

* It is no longer possible to maintain a seperate YouTube account. Google seems
  to be using [dark patterns](http://darkpatterns.org/) to trick YouTube users
  into linking their YouTube accounts to their personal Google+ accounts. There
  is then no way to reverse this without deleting your entire channel.

* When using Google Search a prompt appears among the search suggestions
  encouraging me to sign in.

* *note: fill in with other examples I do not remember as I see them again.*

In the beginning Google seemed to focus on innovation and assume profit would
follow. More and more it seems they are focussing on profit; innovation seems
to be only a means to an end, with regard to their consumer-facing products at
least. I have always been aware that I am not Google's customer, I am their
product. In the past, however, it seemed that Google was invested in a moral
position that protected the interests of "users" like me. With their push to
monetize I do not feel this is true any longer, and I no longer trust Google to
act in my best interest. I still do not think they are intentionally malicious,
but their interests have diverged from mine to the point where what Google
thinks is a reasonable use of my data is quite different than what I would
think. In this circumstance and in light of the ever increasing amount of data
Google capture, I am no longer comfortable being their product.

### Brief highlights of further motivation (revist and expand as time permits)

* Too accessible to NSA/third parties. Scope of both legal and illegal access
  is shocking and disconcerting.

## Preferential Order of Alternatives

0. As a matter of general principle this effort is based on what will work best
   for me. If others have similar needs and can benefit, then I am glad but I
   will make decisions for which products to use or develop based on my own
   needs. Trying to find a solution that works for every possible use-case is
   too large a scope for the time I have to dedicate to this project.

1. Ideally I will be able to move to open-source alternative products that I
   can host on my own servers or on a personal cloud.

2. If no mature open-source alternative exists, I will become look for an
   open-source alternative in development. Assuming I can make a real
   difference in the amount of time available to me I will contribute to these
   projects.

3. If there is no open-source alternative in development, or if I think there
   are significant problems with the alternatives availeb, and if I think I can
   develop my own alternative in a reasonable timeframe, then I will develop my
   own alternative. This alternative will be open-source. It will have options
   to be hosted and run on your own servers and I may also provide support for
   others to host their data on my servers.

4. Proprietary solutions hosted on my own servers is the next preference.

5. Failing that I am willing to migrate to proprietary products hosted on
   servers I do not own, but in this case care should be taken to diversify
   the providers so that no single entity has an integrated view of my data.
   This is the least attractive alternative, but still I feel a better
   situation than remaining on Google products.

## Long-term Goals

* Have viable open-source alternatives for all Google products.
* Automate migration from Google products to the chosen alternatives.
